docs: migrate metadata reference (#5401)
canonical/snapcraft: docs/reference/metadata.rst

.. _reference_metadata:

Using external metadata
=======================

> To help avoid unnecessary duplication, and for convenience, Snapcraft can process and
> incorporate external metadata from within a project file by using the ``parse-info``
> key within a :ref:`part <parts>` and a corresponding ``adopt-info`` key.
> 
> For example, the following project file will parse a file called ``metadata-file``.
> Snapcraft will attempt to extract ``version``, ``summary``, and ``description``
> metadata for the snap, all of which are mandatory:
> 
> .. code-block:: yaml
>     :caption: metadata in snapcraft.yaml
> 
>     name: my-snap-name
>     adopt-info: part-with-metadata
> 
>     parts:
>       part-with-metadata:
>         plugin: dump
>         source: .
>         parse-info: [metadata-file]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To help avoid duplication, Snapcraft can process and incorporate external package
information from within a project file.
```

> See `The Snapcraft format <https://snapcraft.io/docs/build-configuration>`_ for further
> details on Snapcraft metadata and how it's used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This reference describes the available external information sources. For a guide on how
to use them, see  :ref:`how-to-configure-package-information`.
```

          craftctl default
          craftctl set version="my-version"
          craftctl set grade="devel"

See `Using the craftctl tool <https://snapcraft.io/docs/using-craftctl>`_ for more
details on using scripting elements within a project file.

[not recommended] ``setup.py``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. warning::
    Using ``parse-info`` with :file:`setup.py` is currently discouraged because it has
    many issues. For example, it incorrectly `uses the project's summary as the snap's
    description <https://bugs.launchpad.net/snapcraft/+bug/1813364>`_ and it `might
    crash the snap build
    <https://github.com/snapcore/snapcraft/pull/2756#issuecomment-544284814>`_.

A `setup.py <https://docs.python.org/3/distutils/setupscript.html>`_ file is used by
many Python projects to help with package installation. If your :file:`setup.py` uses
`setuptools <https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_ and defines ``version``
and ``description``, these can be extracted from :file:`setup.py` and used as the
``version`` and ``description`` metadata in the resulting snap.

The following is an example of :file:`setup.py` in the root of a hypothetical git tree:

> 
> .. code-block:: python
>     :caption: a basic example setup.py
> 
>     import setuptools
> 
>     setuptools.setup(
>         name='hello-world',
>         version='1.0',
>         author='snapcrafter',
>         author_email='snapcraft@lists.snapcraft.io',
>         description='A simple hello world in python',
>         scripts=['hello'],
>     )
> 
> You can *adopt* the relevant metadata in the baove with the following project file:
> 
> .. code-block:: yaml
>     :caption: snapcraft.yaml adopting from setup.py
> 
>     name: sampleapp-name
>     summary: sampleapp summary
>     adopt-info: sampleapp
> 
>     apps:
>       sampleapp:
>         command: sampleapp
> 
>     parts:
>       sampleapp:
>         plugin: python
>         source: https://github.com/example/sampleapp.git
>         parse-info: [setup.py]
> 
> Snapcraft versions and compatibility
> ------------------------------------
> 
> .. list-table::
>     :header-rows: 1
> 
>     * - Change
>       - Snapcraft version
> 
>     * - Initial introduction
>       - 2.39
> 
>     * - appstream support
>       - 2.39
> 
>     * - ``common-id``
>       - 2.40
> 
>     * - :file:`setup.py` support
>       - 2.41
> 
>     * - ``snapcraftctl set-version``
>       - 2.41
> 
>     * - ``snapcraftctl set-grade``
>       - 2.41

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
